---
title: Armor Types summary: Heavy, Medium, and Light. What does it mean? created_date: 4/13/2000 updated_date: 4/13/2000
---

## Armor Types

All units in "IMMORTAL: Gates of Pyre" have one of the three armor types.

- Heavy
- Medium
- Light

These types mean nothing inherently. A Light armor unit will not take more damage than a Heavy armor unit, from the same
damage source.

Where this change is some units deal particular damage to a particular armor type.

For example, a Dervish deals 16 damage generally, 24 to medium, and 32 damage to heavy armor types. As an opposite
example, the Zephyr will deal 20 damage generally, 24 to medium and 28 to heavy armor types. And as a different example,
Sipari deals 20 damage generally, 18 damage to heavy armor.

Wait? There was no pattern to what general and specific damage is.

Ya, don't read too much into these damage labels, they are just what is most readable on a per-unit basis.

## So what do I do with this knowledge?

Let's assume you are playing Q'Rath, and your opponent is playing Aru.

They have two armies, one is a pack of Masked Hunters, and one is a pack of Xacals.

Masked Hunters have the light armor type and Xacals have the heavy armor type.

Well, you know Dervish deals the most damage to Light, and Zephyr deals the most damage to heavy, so you should
generally have your Dervish attack the Masked Hunters and the Zephyr's attack the Xacals.

But wait, your opponent moved their two armies together!

Defensively, Masked Hunters deal less damage to the heavy armor type, and Xacals do less damage to Light.

So while you want your Dervish to attack Masked Hunters, and the Zephyrs to attack the Xacals, you also want your
Dervish to defend against the Xacals and Zephyrs to defend against the Masked Hunters.

In mixed battles, you can spend some micro on your units to defend against enemy attackers they are strong against while
having them attack potentially different enemies.

So what should you do? Build some Sipari, a Light armor unit, to help tank some Xacal shots, to give your Dervish and
Zephyrs room to maneuver against their key targets.

## What else is there?

Some units have additional tags, such as Structure and Etheric. Units can deal particular, or BONUS damage against
enemies with those tags.

**What are structures?** Structures are any building. Pretty much anything not a part of your moving army.

As an example of bonus damage, the Absolver deals +8 damage to structures, giving it 29 DPS to heavy structures.
Conversely, it has 23 DPS against heavy structures when deployed, meaning Absolvers are better at sniping most
structures when mobilized.

Heads up though, that not all structures are heavy, examples include Radiant Wards generated by the Dervish.

**What are etherics?** Etherics are most caster units in the game. These casters can generally win long drawn-out
fights, so are good to snipe with units that deal extra damage against them.

An etheric example would be the Bloodbounds Culling Strike ability, which deals bonus damage against etheric.
